[Card] Design guidelines (#267)
primer/brand: apps/docs/content/components/Card/index.mdx

---
title: Card
status: Experimental
source: https://github.com/primer/brand/tree/main/packages/react/src/Card/Card.tsx
storybook: '/brand/storybook/?path=/story/components-card--default'
description: Use Card to group information in a compact way and link to other pages.
---

import ComponentLayout from '../../../src/layouts/component-layout'
export default ComponentLayout

## Anatomy

![An image showing the Card anatomy with an icon as a visual asset, a heading, a description and a CTA text in a vertical order.](https://github.com/primer/brand/assets/912236/633b83d8-4ea8-49bd-9d6c-45a1989060d9)

### Visual asset

> The visual asset is optional and can be an image or an icon. It can be used to provide a visual cue to the user about the content of the card. To avoid visual noise, we recommend using only one icon or image, but not both in the same card.

Reviewer: > but not both in the same card.

This would make a great Do/Dont illustration if you can do one 🙏. May go unnoticed otherwise.

Author: good point! 👍

> ![An image showing two Cards, onw with and Icon and another one with an Image as the visual assets options.](https://github.com/primer/brand/assets/912236/be65583b-f6f0-438a-8d2c-6b7a0a9fd3de)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
![An image showing two Cards, one with an Icon and another with an Image as the visual assets options.](https://github.com/primer/brand/assets/912236/be65583b-f6f0-438a-8d2c-6b7a0a9fd3de)
```

### Label

The label can be used to indicate the type of content or its status. For example, use it to indicate that the content is `new` or that it is a `beta` feature. The label is optional and can be used along with a visual asset.

![An image showing two Cards, one with a Label and another one with Label and Icon.](https://github.com/primer/brand/assets/912236/2d84fe89-2735-451e-9d1f-9a2f0297e7b5)

### Heading

The heading is the main title of the card. It should be short and concise.

### Description

The description is an optional short text that extends the information provided by the heading.

### Call to action

The call to action label indicates the action or resource the card links to. It defaults to "Learn more".

> ## Usage

Author: Done!

> Use cards to summarize the core idea behind some content and link to its detailed resource. Always display information in a compact way and avoid long texts or complex information.

Reviewer: tiny suggestion

```suggestion
Use cards to summarize the central idea behind some content and provide a link to its corresponding detailed resource. It is important to present the information in a concise manner, avoiding lengthy and complex descriptions``

> Cards should always be used in groups of two or more related concepts.

Reviewer: ☝️ This would also make a great visual Do/Dont IMO.

### Stacked

Cards should be stacked to display a list of items that are related to each other. If displaying a visual asset, do so for all cards to achieve a visually balanced layout. The visual asset should be the same type for all cards, either an icon or an image.

For a better visual experience, we recommend using similar length size for the heading and description in all stacked cards.

<DoDontContainer stacked>
  <Do>
    <img src="https://github.com/primer/brand/assets/912236/66394dda-13de-4c86-bd82-534d99d593d8" />
    <Caption>

>       Use the same type of visual asset for all cards and a similar lenght size

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      Use the same type of visual asset for all cards and a similar length size
```

      for the content.
    </Caption>
  </Do>
  <Dont>
    <img src="https://github.com/primer/brand/assets/912236/c612ccf8-7c98-4213-92b9-2fdf6f0f1398" />
    <Caption>

>       Don't use different lenght sizes for the title or the description.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      Don't use different length sizes for the title or the description.
```

<DoDontContainer stacked>
  <Do>
    <img src="https://github.com/primer/brand/assets/912236/0ec93c16-7091-4ebb-a1a0-b0626de7833f" />
    <Caption>
      Use the same image ratio and a similar lenght sizes for the content.
    </Caption>
  </Do>
  <Dont>
    <img src="https://github.com/primer/brand/assets/912236/0b8ffb2d-0753-4bdd-9165-0f30ec28a8c8" />
    <Caption>
      Don't use different image ratios and a different length size for the
      content.
    </Caption>
  </Dont>
</DoDontContainer>

Cards typically appear in groups of three or four. For rows of four cards, we recommend using short and concise content and avoid using images as the visual asset. When more than four cards or extensive content is needed, stack them vertically.

<DoDontContainer stacked>
  <Do>
    <img src="https://github.com/primer/brand/assets/912236/a56f80f9-9a02-4fe0-8d8b-eb61e8396030" />
    <Caption>
      Stack cards vertically using multiple rows so that the content is easy to
      scan.
    </Caption>
  </Do>
  <Dont>
    <img src="https://github.com/primer/brand/assets/912236/3f467a76-da93-4b1c-a53e-763319df8049" />
    <Caption>

>       Don't use a single row of cards if the content is too extensive.

Reviewer: I think this would happen even if content was concise. Should the advise here be to stack vertically on narrower viewports instead?

Author: 👍  I'll add that to the description and examples

Author: Updated the description with a video player with a responsive example

https://github.com/primer/brand/assets/912236/e4ac4ed3-4190-4e8b-b467-364fe880aa30

<DoDontContainer>
  <Do>
    <img src="https://github.com/primer/brand/assets/912236/fced572e-c296-4a97-aaa8-3d4b357f2f6e" />
    <Caption>
      Use the same type of visual asset for all cards and a similar length size
      for the content.
    </Caption>
  </Do>
  <Dont>
    <img src="https://github.com/primer/brand/assets/912236/c612ccf8-7c98-4213-92b9-2fdf6f0f1398" />
    <Caption>
      Don't use different length sizes for the title or the description.
    </Caption>
  </Dont>
</DoDontContainer>

When using an image as the visual asset, we recommend using the same aspect ratio for all images. This will create a more balanced visual experience.

<DoDontContainer>
  <Do>
    <img src="https://github.com/primer/brand/assets/912236/0ec93c16-7091-4ebb-a1a0-b0626de7833f" />
    <Caption>
      Use the same image ratio and a similar lenght sizes for the content.
    </Caption>
  </Do>
  <Dont>
    <img src="https://github.com/primer/brand/assets/912236/0b8ffb2d-0753-4bdd-9165-0f30ec28a8c8" />
    <Caption>
      Don't use different image ratios and a different length size for the
      content.
    </Caption>
  </Dont>
</DoDontContainer>

> Cards typically appear in groups of three or four in desktop viewports. For smaller viewports, or when more than four cards are needed, we recommend stacking the cards vertically. You can use the [Grid](/components/Grid) or the [Stack](/components/Stack) component to achieve this.

Reviewer: I _think_ these links will break when the site gets deployed to production because of the path prefix.

You may need to use the Gatsby Link or do this instead:

```suggestion
Cards typically appear in groups of three or four in desktop viewports. For smaller viewports, or when more than four cards are needed, we recommend stacking the cards vertically. You can use the [Grid](/brand/components/Grid) or the [Stack](/brand/components/Stack) component to achieve this.
```

Author: It works good on production, you used them in the `Avatar` guidelines:

https://primer.style/brand/components/Avatar

mdx code: https://github.com/primer/brand/blob/main/apps/docs/content/components/Avatar/index.mdx?plain=1#L31

<div>

>   <CustomVideoPlayer

Reviewer: <img width="968" alt="Screenshot 2023-05-23 at 09 04 54" src="https://github.com/primer/brand/assets/13340707/509a4e17-c51d-483e-8d24-8d2d94134d52">

<DoDontContainer>
  <Do>
    <img src="https://github.com/primer/brand/assets/912236/863de864-5216-44bf-8b35-430821da8853" />
    <Caption>Use only one visual asset per card.</Caption>
  </Do>
  <Dont>
    <img src="https://github.com/primer/brand/assets/912236/9acdde97-42e3-4a7a-8102-b9be5e3c05fc" />
    <Caption>Don't use both icon and image as the visual asset.</Caption>
  </Dont>
</DoDontContainer>

### Label

The label can be used to indicate the type of content or its status. For example, use it to indicate that the content is `new` or that it is a `beta` feature. The label is optional and can be used along with a visual asset.

![An image showing two Cards, one with a Label and another one with Label and Icon.](https://github.com/primer/brand/assets/912236/2d84fe89-2735-451e-9d1f-9a2f0297e7b5)

### Heading

The heading is the main title of the card. It should be short and concise.

### Description

The description is an optional short text that extends the information provided by the heading.

### Call to action

The call to action label indicates the action or resource the card links to. It defaults to "Learn more".

## Related components

> - To display non-navigational related content in a compact way, use the [Pillar](/components/Pillar) component.
> - To display a list of plain content items, use the [UnorderedList](/components/UnorderedList) or the [OrderedList](/components/OrderedList) component.
> - To display a single block of content to draw attention or create urgency around a user action, use the [CTABanner](/components/CTABanner) component.

Reviewer: I love this section. Wondering if we could reorder it for improved scanning by front-loading the component name. E.g.

```suggestion
- [Pillar](/brand/components/Pillar): To display non-navigational related content in a compact way, use the  component.
- [OrderedList](/brand/components/OrderedList): To display a list of plain content items
- [CTABanner](/brand/components/CTABanner): To display a single block of content to draw attention or create urgency around a user action
```

Think you'll need to prefix the links here too btw ☝️

Author: Re-order sounds good!

---
title: Card
status: Experimental
source: https://github.com/primer/brand/tree/main/packages/react/src/Card/Card.tsx
storybook: '/brand/storybook/?path=/story/components-card--default'
description: Use the Card component to display information in a compact way and link to other internal pages.
---

import ComponentLayout from '../../../src/layouts/component-layout'
export default ComponentLayout

## Anatomy

![An image showing the Card anatomy with an icon as a visual asset, a heading, a description and a CTA text in a vertical order.](https://github.com/primer/brand/assets/912236/633b83d8-4ea8-49bd-9d6c-45a1989060d9)

### Visual asset

The visual asset is optional and can be an image or an icon. It can be used to provide a visual cue to the user about the content of the card. To avoid visual noise, we recommend using only one icon or image, but not both in the same card.

![An image showing two Cards, onw with and Icon and another one with an Image as the visual assets options.](https://github.com/primer/brand/assets/912236/be65583b-f6f0-438a-8d2c-6b7a0a9fd3de)

### Label

> The label can be used to indicate the type of content or the status of the card. For example, it can be used to indicate that the content is `new` or that it is a `beta` feature. The label is optional and can be used along with a visual asset.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The label can be used to indicate the type of content or its status. For example, use it to indicate that the content is `new` or that it is a `beta` feature. The label is optional and can be used along with a visual asset.
```

![An image showing two Cards, one with a Label and another one with Label and Icon.](https://github.com/primer/brand/assets/912236/2d84fe89-2735-451e-9d1f-9a2f0297e7b5)

### Heading

The heading is the main title of the card. It should be short and concise.

### Description

The description is an optional short text that extends the information provided by the heading.

### CTA

> The CTA is a text that indicates the action that will be performed when the user clicks on the card. It defaults to "Learn more".

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The call to action label indicates the action or resource the card links to. It defaults to "Learn more".
```

## Usage

Cards are a clickable excerpt leading the fuller form of the content they summarize. They introduce the core element of the content behind it and always link to it. Cards should be used to display information in a compact way. Don't use them to display long texts or complex information.

### Stacked

> Cards can be stacked to display a list of items that are related to each other. When used in a stack, provide either a visual asset for all cards or none. If you provide a visual asset for some cards and not for others, it will create visual noise and make the stack look unbalanced. The visual asset should be the same type for all cards, either an icon or an image.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Cards should be stacked to display a list of items that are related to each other. If displaying a visual asset, do so for all cards to achieve a visually balanced layout. The visual asset should be the same type for all cards, either an icon or an image.
```

> Cards can be stacked to display a list of items that are related to each other. When used in a stack, provide either a visual asset for all cards or none. If you provide a visual asset for some cards and not for others, it will create visual noise and make the stack look unbalanced. The visual asset should be the same type for all cards, either an icon or an image.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Cards should be stacked to display a list of items that are related to each other. If displaying a visual asset, do so for all cards to achieve a visually balanced layout. The visual asset should be the same type for all cards, either an icon or an image.
```
